TIMELINEPLOT(1)                                                TIMELINEPLOT(1)



NAME
       timelineplot - generate simple line plots with time on the x-axis



SYNOPSIS
       timelineplot {datafile|-} imagefile [option]...



DESCRIPTION
       Generate  simple  line  plots  from  two columns of character-delimited
       data. The first column represents the time variable  (x-axis)  and  the
       second column contains the values to be plotted.

       Timelineplot  is  a  wrapper  for gnuplot with many options in the plot
       script adjustable by optional command line arguments.




REQUIRED ARGUMENTS
       datafile

              Two-column text file with time series data to  be  plotted.  The
              default  column  separator is the pipe character, "|". The first
              column must be  a  date  string  (default  format  is  "%Y-%m-%d
              %H:%M:%S").  The  second  column must be numeric. Any additional
              columns will be ignored.

              Command line options may be used to specify an alternative  col‐
              umn separator or time format string.

              When datafile is "-", read data from standard input instead of a
              file.


       imagefile

              File to use for the plot output image. This file will  be  over‐
              written if it already exists.

              The output image will be created in png format by default.




OPTIONS
   Input modifiers
       -sep character

              Column  separator for the input data file. Default is "|".  (The
              separator character should be enclosed in double quotes.)


       -tfmt format_string

              Format string describing the time format in the first column  of
              the input file. Default value is "%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S".



   Output modifiers
       -xfmt format_string

              Format  string  to  use  for  x-axis  labels in the output plot.
              Default value is "" (no labels).



       -h pixels

              Height of output image in pixels. Default is 300.



       -w pixels

              Width of output image in pixels. Default is 400.



       -format format

              Image format for the plot image. Default is "png". Other choices
              include "svg", "jpeg", and "gif".



       -title string

              Title to associate with the y-axis data. Default value is "".



       -linetitle string

              Title to associate with the plotted line in a key. (Not terribly
              useful since we're only plotting one line.) Default value is "".



       -xlabel string

              Label for x-axis. Default value is "".



       -ylabel string

              Label for y-axis. Default value is "".



       -xmin time_expression, -xmax time_expression

              Minimum and maximum values to use for x-axis. Useful if  a  con‐
              stant  scale  is needed. Default is for the plot to fit the data
              values.  The time expression must be in the same format  as  the
              time values in the input data.



       -ymin number, -ymax number

              Minimum  and  maximum values to use for y-axis. Useful if a con‐
              stant scale is needed. Default is for the plot to fit  the  data
              values.



       -xrot degrees

              Rotation  angle  for  the  timestamp  labels on the x-axis tics.
              Default is 60.



       -lc color_expression

              Set the color of the line.  Default  value  is  "#0000FF".   Any
              value that gnuplot will accept after "rgbcolor" can be used here
              (e.g. "red", "0xff0000", or "#ff0000").



       -lw pixels

              Set the line width in pixels. Default is 2.



       -bgcolor color_expression

              Set the color of the plot background. Default is "#FFFFFF".



       -grid {xtics|ytics|"noxtics noytics"}

              Set the background grid. Default is to show the full grid.
              xtics - only show gridlines parallel to x-axis
              ytics - only show gridlines parallel to y-axis
              "noxtics noytics" - no background grid



       -gridcolor color_expression

              Set the color of background grid lines. Default is "#B0B0B0".



       -font fontname

              Specify the font. Default is "arial".



       -fontsize number

              Specify the font size. Default is 12.



       -fontcolor color_expression

              Set the color of the fonts and borders. Default is "#000000".




AUTHOR
       Written by Evan Linde (elinde@okstate.edu)




SEE ALSO
       gnuplot(1)

       More time format strings appear to work than are indicated by gnuplot's
       documentation.  See  strftime(3)  for  additional  time formatters that
       might work.



                                  2019-09-16                   TIMELINEPLOT(1)
